README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src="https://coltorapps.com/images/ldt-screenshot.png" width="80%"></p>
<h1 align="center">Laravel Dashboard Template</h1>
<p align="center">
💫Basic Dashboard Template as a Package.💫
</p>
<p align="center">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/vpre/sandulat/laratron.svg">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/sandulat/laratron.svg">
<a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=sandulat">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/sandulat.svg?style=social">
</a>
<p>

## Installation

```bash
composer require sandulat/laravel-dashboard-template
php artisan laravel-dashboard-template:install
```

> Note: to re-publish the front-end assets when updating the package use: `php artisan laravel-dashboard-template:publish`

The `install` command will publish the front-end assets and will create a new service provider `App\Providers\DashboardServiceProvider`. This is basically the main config of the template, but first let's see how to display the dashboard in the next section.

## Layout

Create a route and a controller that will return a view. Inside the view place the following code:

`my_view.blade.php:`
```blade
@extends('laravel-dashboard-template::page')

@section('ldt-content')
    Some content
@endsection
```

> Note: `ldt` stands for `laravel-dashboard-template`.

As you can see `laravel-dashboard-template::page` is just a layout. Besides `ldt-content` the layout provides 2 more additional slots: `ldt-topbar-left` and `ldt-topbar-right` which point to the right and left of the top bar. To avoid duplication of those slots, it would be better to create your own layout that will extend the package's layout.

`my_layout.blade.php:`
```blade
@extends('laravel-dashboard-template::page')

@section('ldt-topbar-right')
    Language Select
@endsection
```

So now in your views you can do:

`my_view.blade.php:`
```blade
@extends('my_layout')

@section('ldt-content')
    Some content
@endsection
```

## Card

Besides layout, the package provides a card component:

```blade
@component('laravel-dashboard-template::components.card')
    @slot('title')
        Dahboard
    @endslot

    Content
@endcomponent
```

The result can be seen in the screenshot at the top of the documentation.

## Alerts

Out of the box the package will display 2 types of alerts above the `content` section of the layout. They will be displayed when you redirect with `success` and `error` flash data:

```php
return back()->with('success', 'My success message.');
```

```php
return back()->with('error', 'My error message.');
```

## Configuration

You can configure the dashboard inside the installed provider: `App\Providers\DashboardServiceProvider`. By default it's empty because everything is already configured so you can start building instantly, however you can add the following methods to start customizing the dashboard:

```php
/**
 * Topbar user name resolver.
 *
 * @return string
 */
public function userName(): string
{
    return Auth::check() ? Auth::user()->name : 'Guest';
}
```
```php
/**
 * Topbar user avatar resolver.
 *
 * @return string
 */
public function userAvatar(): string
{
    if (Auth::check() && Auth::user()->avatar) {
        return Auth::user()->avatar;
    }

    return URL::asset('/vendor/laravel-dashboard-template/images/avatar.svg')
}
```
```php
/**
 * Sidebar links.
 *
 * @return array
 */
public function sidebarLinks(): array
{
    return [
        'Menu' => [
            [
                'label' => 'Users',
                'url' => route('users'),
                'children' => [
                    [
                        'label' => 'Active Users',
                        'url' => route('users.active'),
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ],
    ];
}
```
```php
/**
 * Profile dropdown links.
 *
 * @return array
 */
public function profileDropdownLinks(): array
{
    return [
        [
            'label' => 'Edit Profile',
            'url' => route('profile'),
        ],
    ];
}
```
```php
/**
 * Logout the user.
 *
 * @param \Illuminate\Http\Request $request
 * @return void
 */
public function logout(Request $request): void
{
    Auth::guard()->logout();

    $request->session()->invalidate();
}
```
```php
/**
 * Action to be performed after logout.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function loggedOut(): void
{
    //
}
```
```php
/**
 * Redirect after logout.
 *
 * @return \Illuminate\Http\RedirectResponse
 */
public function logoutRedirect(): RedirectResponse
{
    return redirect('/');
}
```

> Note: Each method from this service provider has dependency injection available.

## Customization

I've tried to split the template into as many components & partials as possible. Just create inside your project the folder: `resources/views/vendor/laravel-dashboard-template` and now you can copy the files from the package and customize them. Here is the list:
- partials/alert.blade.php
- partials/alert_error.blade.php
- partials/alert_success.blade.php
- partials/sidebar.blade.php
- partials/sidebar_link.blade.php
- partials/sidebar_logo.blade.php
- partials/topbar_profile_dropdown.blade.php

---

- components/card.blade.php
- components/dropdown.blade.php
- components/dropdown_item.blade.php
- components/topbar.blade.php

## Credits

Created by [Stratulat Alexandru](https://twitter.com/sandulat).

<a href="https://coltorapps.com/">
  <img src="https://coltorapps.com/images/logo_transparent.png" width="150px">
</a>

Commit message:

Updated Readme. (ldt-head, ldt-scripts, "app" id)

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src="https://coltorapps.com/images/ldt-screenshot.png" width="80%"></p>
<h1 align="center">Laravel Dashboard Template</h1>
<p align="center">
💫Basic Dashboard Template as a Package.💫
</p>
<p align="center">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/vpre/sandulat/laratron.svg">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/sandulat/laratron.svg">
<a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=sandulat">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/sandulat.svg?style=social">
</a>
<p>

> Note: Not suitable for single page applications as it's built in `Blade`, however you can use Vue/React/etc. components on all pages.

## Installation

```bash
composer require sandulat/laravel-dashboard-template
php artisan laravel-dashboard-template:install
```

> Note: to re-publish the front-end assets when updating the package use: `php artisan laravel-dashboard-template:publish`

The `install` command will publish the front-end assets and will create a new service provider `App\Providers\DashboardServiceProvider`. This is basically the main config of the template, but first let's see how to display the dashboard in the next section.

## Layout

Create a route and a controller that will return a view. Inside the view place the following code:

`my_view.blade.php:`
```blade
@extends('laravel-dashboard-template::page')

@section('ldt-content')
    Some content
@endsection
```

> Note: `ldt` stands for `laravel-dashboard-template`.

As you can see `laravel-dashboard-template::page` is just a layout. Besides `ldt-content` the layout provides 4 more additional slots:
- `ldt-head` - Head section for CSS, meta, etc.
- `ldt-scripts` - Scripts section to include JS files.
- `ldt-topbar-left` - Left section of topbar.
- `ldt-topbar-right` - Right section of topbar, next to profile dropdown.

To avoid duplication of these slots, it would be better to create your own layout that will extend the package's layout.

`my_layout.blade.php:`
```blade
@extends('laravel-dashboard-template::page')

@section('ldt-topbar-right')
    Language Select
@endsection
```

So now in your views you can do:

`my_view.blade.php:`
```blade
@extends('my_layout')

@section('ldt-content')
    Some content
@endsection
```

## Card

Besides layout, the package provides a card component:

```blade
@component('laravel-dashboard-template::components.card')
    @slot('title')
        Dahboard
    @endslot

    Content
@endcomponent
```

The result can be seen in the screenshot at the top of the documentation.

## Alerts

Out of the box the package will display 2 types of alerts above the `content` section of the layout. They will be displayed when you redirect with `success` and `error` flash data:

```php
return back()->with('success', 'My success message.');
```

```php
return back()->with('error', 'My error message.');
```

## Configuration

You can configure the dashboard inside the installed provider: `App\Providers\DashboardServiceProvider`. By default it's empty because everything is already configured so you can start building instantly, however you can add the following methods to start customizing the dashboard:

```php
/**
 * Topbar user name resolver.
 *
 * @return string
 */
public function userName(): string
{
    return Auth::check() ? Auth::user()->name : 'Guest';
}
```
```php
/**
 * Topbar user avatar resolver.
 *
 * @return string
 */
public function userAvatar(): string
{
    if (Auth::check() && Auth::user()->avatar) {
        return Auth::user()->avatar;
    }

    return URL::asset('/vendor/laravel-dashboard-template/images/avatar.svg')
}
```
```php
/**
 * Sidebar links.
 *
 * @return array
 */
public function sidebarLinks(): array
{
    return [
        'Menu' => [
            [
                'label' => 'Users',
                'url' => route('users'),
                'children' => [
                    [
                        'label' => 'Active Users',
                        'url' => route('users.active'),
                    ],
                ],
            ],
        ],
    ];
}
```
```php
/**
 * Profile dropdown links.
 *
 * @return array
 */
public function profileDropdownLinks(): array
{
    return [
        [
            'label' => 'Edit Profile',
            'url' => route('profile'),
        ],
    ];
}
```
```php
/**
 * Logout the user.
 *
 * @param \Illuminate\Http\Request $request
 * @return void
 */
public function logout(Request $request): void
{
    Auth::guard()->logout();

    $request->session()->invalidate();
}
```
```php
/**
 * Action to be performed after logout.
 *
 * @return void
 */
public function loggedOut(): void
{
    //
}
```
```php
/**
 * Redirect after logout.
 *
 * @return \Illuminate\Http\RedirectResponse
 */
public function logoutRedirect(): RedirectResponse
{
    return redirect('/');
}
```

> Note: Each method from this service provider has dependency injection available.

## Customization

I've tried to split the template into as many components & partials as possible. Just create inside your project the folder: `resources/views/vendor/laravel-dashboard-template` and now you can copy the files from the package and customize them. Here is the list:
- partials/alert.blade.php
- partials/alert_error.blade.php
- partials/alert_success.blade.php
- partials/sidebar.blade.php
- partials/sidebar_link.blade.php
- partials/sidebar_logo.blade.php
- partials/topbar_profile_dropdown.blade.php

---

- components/card.blade.php
- components/dropdown.blade.php
- components/dropdown_item.blade.php
- components/topbar.blade.php

## Using Vue/React/etc. components

The main div that wraps the dashboard has an `app` id. You can load your front-end framework onto this id and start using your components on all pages.

## Credits

Created by [Stratulat Alexandru](https://twitter.com/sandulat).

<a href="https://coltorapps.com/">
  <img src="https://coltorapps.com/images/logo_transparent.png" width="150px">
</a>
